well we can now speak to Tess Ingram
she's a spokesperson for Unicef she
joins us now from un headquarters in New
York Tess thanks for joining us on our
deser I understand you were in Gaza last
month can you talk us through what you
and your teams are seeing there now are
the situations very different between
the North and
South they're incredibly different uh
the situation in the South which we're
able to uh provide some limited Aid and
also have some access to there's uh you
know some level of food all of the
families that I met and spoke to said
that they were incredibly hungry but
they are able to access uh tinned
vegetables from Aid packages and and
perhaps bread from a community fire uh
food is limited and the diversity in
that food is not enough nutrition for
for children to grow up healthy and
strong but in the north the situation is
is even worse uh unbelievably because
Aid access to the north has basically
been non-existent since the beginning of
this year we haven't received the safety
assurance is that we need to get up into
the North and provide Aid there and what
we're hearing from families on the
ground in the north is is that hunger is
is catastrophic and people are resorting
to to non-human foods to to try and
survive uh just really harrowing stories
that we've been getting I've been
wondering what's actually getting across
the border at the moment me it feels
like restrictions have increased over
the last days and weeks what reason are
Israeli forces actually giving to Aid
workers for for turning trucks
back so it's it's uh very opaque we we
do our best to try and get as much Aid
in as we can but the process for
screening at that border is is very
complex and it's very long and one of
the challenges that we have is is when
we kind of surrender trucks to that
screening process we don't know when
they're going to arrive on the other
side which makes it very difficult for
us to plan the distribution and then
once we do receive the goods we then
have to battle with the ongoing security
challenges on the ground the lack of
trucks fuel the damage to the roads so
it's incredibly difficult for us to move
around even more so now with the the
threat of a grand invasion in Rafa Tess
just in terms of of clarity can you give
us a sense of what's gotten in in terms
of aid over the last few days we're
hearing that barely anything especially
in terms of food has made it made it
into the strip at
all
yeah so I know that we've definitely um
got a couple of trucks in but supplies
have been really far lower than the
needs uh at the moment UNICEF is
bringing in um nutrition supplies like
uh therapeutic food and an infant
formula but far more needs to come in
than than what's coming in at the moment
and I know it's the same for other
agencies like wfp which brings in things
like flour sure well let me ask you then
about the impact on pregnant women and
children last month your agency issued a
a warning about child wasting can you
explain that for our
viewers yeah child wasting is the most
severe form of of um childhood
malnutrition um and it's basically when
children just don't get enough of the
essential nutrients that they need in in
order to be healthy it's compounded by a
lack of clean water and of disease so at
the moment we're seeing this real triple
threat in the Gaza Strip where um
children are dehydrated they're hungry
and they're sick they're living in
really poor conditions and we're really
worried that for the 335,000 children
under five in the Gaza Strip that the
rates of of malnutrition are going to
increase in the coming weeks including
of that really severe form of
malnutrition C wasting which will have
ongoing effects for for their lives
before we move on I do want to ask you
about funding right now for unra
obviously a lot of it's been suspended
is it affecting other a agencies un
agencies in Gaza like yours given the
fact that they were coordinating so much
of the aid
delivery it would be catastrophic uh for
the Gaza Strip and for operations of
other agencies like UNICEF if an wasn't
able to completely function in the Gaza
Strip um we we work with them very
closely on on many things like a
distribution and and vaccinating
children um it's not you know it's not
having an impact yet but it certainly
could if as unra has warned that they
would have to wind back operations as as
soon as the end of this month M so your
agency test UNICEF along with the world
food program and I see the who have
issued a call on the need to change the
flow of humanitarian Aid I I see that
you're asking for access to Ash ashod
port in the north where could other
border crossing points be how could you
change
things so we we are restricted at the
moment to to two uh Crossing points into
the Gaza Strip and there are other
points that were operational you know
before the escalation in hostilities
that we would like to see return to
operations so that we can get more Aid
in but it's not just a matter of getting
more Aid in we then need to be able to
to um have that Aid come in faster with
less restrictions there's still um
equipment that we'd like to bring in
that we can't get in like for example
generators uh we've had generators
sitting at the southernmost Crossing for
for weeks now um and they're so
essential to running um Water Systems uh
and sanitation systems that ensure that
the people of Gaza can have clean water
so we need more Aid we need you know
different types of Aid and then we need
the assurances on the inside to
distribute that safely of course Tess
Ingram there spokesperson for Unicef
speaking to us from un headquarters in
New York thanks so much for joining us
on Al zero
Tess